the five most important skills in seo
seo shifted from being a technical
discipline 10 years ago to being a
multi-disciplinary area that involves a
few different skills and if i had to
tell you all the skills that seo
involves this video could become too
long and overwhelming i'm gonna go
through the foundational skills anyone
who works with seo should master without
these five skills you're not gonna do as
well as an seo the first skill i have
for you is creativity
see in seo one of the biggest ways that
you get rankings is building backlinks
everyone used to build backlinks by
writing content and when they were doing
that i started creating really detailed
guide that had visual graphical images
kind of like an infographic and my
content started generating more
backlinks than other people then other
people started doing the same then i
started doing data rich posts then
people started doing that and then i'm
like wait with content you got to keep
updating it doesn't mean you shouldn't
write content but there must be a better
way to get backlinks and there was free
tools if you look on neilpatel.com i
have ubersuggest which is the seo tool
that's mainly for free it has over 10
000 backlinks i have an av testing
calculator i have a backlink tool that
just tells you how many backlinks you
have i continually release tools and
update my tools and by doing that i'm
generating more seo traffic and ranking
higher because i'm not actually going
out there and fending for the links just
releasing a tool for free has done
really well for me and if you can't
build a tool like i did you can just go
to sites like codecanyon download a tool
pay a little bit of money and release
that tool on your website but that's
example of creativity it's thinking
outside the box and you should start
you know leveraging your creativity
muscles and start thinking outside the
box
the second skill that you need is
understanding analytics i'm not talking
about reading a report there's google
analytics there's google data studio but
when you look at the report and you're
like oh my search traffic's going down
or it's going up
do you understand what's actually
driving you
more conversions what keywords what
change you need to make to actually get
more better results
that's what i mean by analytic skills
right so when you look at these reports
what changes do you need to make to your
seo strategy so you can actually get the
results you're looking for the third
skill that you need to understand is cro
that's conversion rate optimization
you're probably like neil cro has
nothing to do with seo well think of it
this way
you're writing a lot of content when you
do seo right content marketing you need
that to get backlinks get traffic on
google
google a lot of it is based on text and
words people are typing in
and when you get this traffic to this
content you'll find out as seo well i'm
getting all this traffic but then when
you talk to other people in the company
like you're getting more traffic but
we're not really seeing any more sales
any more leads so how can you convert
those visitors into customers so with
those blog posts you need to
mix in
links that generate sales or forms that
capture more leads in essence you need
to learn sierra to some extent you need
to be an expert on it but you need to
learn it to some extent so for example
if my site was selling kitchen
appliances i may do an article like top
10 toaster of it and i could link in
some of those in the article to some of
the toaster ovens that we sell to
generate sales that's the example of cro
the fourth skill that you need to have
is people skills see seo is turning into
a multi-person organization and it has
for a long time so you got to work with
other people you got to work with people
who can promote the content whether it's
on social media or whether it's doing
manual outreach and asking for people to
share that content you need to deal with
people who can write content who can
create social media
content people who can deal with
copywriting just for headlines you need
to deal with people who can deal
specifically with making those technical
changes to the code and implementing
getting them released right these are
all examples of people that you have to
deal with that are working on seo and if
you don't know how to manage work with
uh project management solutions whether
it's asana or the trellos of the world
you're not gonna be efficient as a team
and get the results that you're looking
for
the last skill that you need to learn is
experimentation
look did you know that google roughly
makes nine algorithm changes per day
that was data from a few years ago they
haven't released any new data points on
how many algorithm changes they're doing
per year but when you look at it
they're making almost 10 plus algorithm
changes a day
how do you keep up with that well you
gotta test
i don't always know the right answer
you're not going to always know the
right answer you've got to test from
testing your title text to meta text to
see what gets the most clicks to testing
seo strategy on a page to see if it
increases your rankings or takes it to
testing things like cross linking to
updating content to testing on adding
videos within your content to see if you
can increase time on site these are all
things you need to test to testing
global expansion right
if you test these strategies you'll see
oh expand to other countries using href
lang and translating my content
transcribing it gets us more seo traffic
or it doesn't work that well oh let me
see if i need to build links in this
other country to that country's specific
content to see if that solves the
problem these are all examples of tests
and if you don't test you won't be able
to keep up with the algorithms so don't
be afraid to test and have your traffic
fluctuate in a positive way or a
negative way testing is good because it
tells you what you should do more of and
what you should do less of and it'll
help you improve in the long run now if
you're looking for a job in seo check
out my ad agency np digital where we're
hiring or if you just want my team to do
all the seo stuff for you
we're here to help just reach out to us
at npdigital.com or if you have any
questions and just want us to help you
with anything just have any question you
want answered for free leave a comment
below i'm here to help you out